OSDOCS#14696: Update the z-stream RNs for 4.17.30 (#93600)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-17-release-notes.adoc

For any {product-title} release, always review the instructions on xref:../updating/updating_a_cluster/updating-cluster-web-console.adoc#updating-cluster-web-console[updating your cluster] properly.
====

// 4.17.30
[id="ocp-4-17-30_{context}"]
=== RHSA-2025:7669 - {product-title} {product-version}.30 bug fix and security update advisory

Issued: 21 May 2025

{product-title} release {product-version}.30 is now available. The list of bug fixes that are included in the update is documented in the link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2025:7669[RHSA-2025:7669] advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHBA-2025:7671[RHBA-2025:7671] advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm release info 4.17.30 --pullspecs
----

[id="ocp-4-17-30-bug-fixes_{context}"]
==== Bug fixes

> * Previously, no event was logged when an error occurred from a failed ingress-to-route conversion. With this update, this error appears in the `event` logs. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55943[*OCPBUGS-55943*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, no event was logged when an error occurred from a failed ingress-to-route conversion. With this update, this error appears in the `event` logs. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55943[OCPBUGS-55943])
```
I think we're no longer highlighting Jiras in bold. If I'm wrong, please ignore this suggestion and my other similar suggestions :)

> * Previously, a bug caused excessive updates to the `progressing` condition because of unsorted failing image imports. This led to unnecessary resource consumption for users. With this release, the excessive updates are fixed in the `samples` Operator by sorting failing image imports. As a result, the Operator performance is improved by reducing unnecessary updates for the image imports. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55894[*OCPBUGS-55894*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, a bug caused excessive updates to the `progressing` condition because of unsorted failing image imports. This led to unnecessary resource consumption for users. With this release, the excessive updates are fixed in the Samples Operator by sorting failing image imports. As a result, the Operator performance is improved by reducing unnecessary updates for the image imports. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55894[OCPBUGS-55894])
```

> * Previously, a sample Operator incorrectly updated its `lastTransitionTime` variable while in a `progressing` condition. This caused the installation program to perceive Operators as unstable, leading to deployment issues. With this release, the Operator checks for a status change before updating the `progressing` condition, improving operator stability, and reducing installation errors. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55800[*OCPBUGS-55800*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, a sample Operator incorrectly updated its `lastTransitionTime` variable while in a `progressing` condition. This caused the installation program to perceive Operators as unstable, leading to deployment issues. With this release, the Operator checks for a status change before updating the `progressing` condition, improving Operator stability, and reducing installation errors. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55800[OCPBUGS-55800])
```

> * Previously, a sample Operator incorrectly updated its `lastTransitionTime` variable while in a `progressing` condition. This caused the installation program to perceive Operators as unstable, leading to deployment issues. With this release, the Operator checks for a status change before updating the `progressing` condition, improving operator stability, and reducing installation errors. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55800[*OCPBUGS-55800*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, a Samples Operator incorrectly updated its `lastTransitionTime` variable while in a `progressing` condition. This caused the installation program to perceive Operators as unstable, leading to deployment issues. With this release, the Operator checks for a status change before updating the `progressing` condition, improving operator stability, and reducing installation errors. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55800[OCPBUGS-55800])
```

> * Previously, unnecessary resource consumption and potential performance degradation were observed because of a cluster Operator watch that affected all cluster Operators. With this release, the watch includes only `openshift-samples`, improving efficiency by limiting the number of cluster Operators that are watched. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55795[*OCPBUGS-55795*])

Reviewer: Should the term "Operators" follow `openshift-samples`?

> * Previously, unnecessary resource consumption and potential performance degradation were observed because of a cluster Operator watch that affected all cluster Operators. With this release, the watch includes only `openshift-samples`, improving efficiency by limiting the number of cluster Operators that are watched. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55795[*OCPBUGS-55795*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, unnecessary resource consumption and potential performance degradation were observed because of a cluster Operator watch that affected all cluster Operators. With this release, the watch includes only `openshift-samples`, improving efficiency by limiting the number of cluster Operators that are watched. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55795[OCPBUGS-55795])
```

> * Previously, {azure-first} spot virtual machine (VM) de-allocation during provisioning caused the machine controller to go into a loop, leading to Spot VM provisioning failures and unavailable nodes. With this release, the `deallocate eviction` policy is replaced with the `delete eviction policy` in {azure-short} spot VM provisioning. This improves the machine controller resilience and avoids the loop during provisioning. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55729[*OCPBUGS-55729*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, when {azure-first} Spot virtual machine (VM) de-allocation occurred during provisioning, the machine controller entered a loop, leading to Spot VM provisioning failures and unavailable nodes. With this release, the `deallocate eviction` policy is replaced with the `delete eviction` policy in {azure-short} Spot VM provisioning. As a result, the machine controller is more resilient and it no longer enters a loop during provisioning. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55729[OCPBUGS-55729])
```
I'm not familiar with Spot VM provisioning, but from what I see in the docs, it's usually capitalized.

> * Previously, a bug in the clock accuracy update occurred during the grandmaster clock sync state reception from events and led to incorrect clock synchronization for users. With this release, the clock class accuracy in the `event handler` is updated, ensuring compliance with International Telecommunication Union Telecommunication Standardization Sector (ITU-T) recommendations and improving synchronization accuracy. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55740[*OCPBUGS-55740*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, a bug in the clock accuracy update occurred during the grandmaster clock sync state reception from events. As a consequence, clock synchronization was incorrect for users. With this release, the clock class accuracy in the event handler is updated, ensuring compliance with International Telecommunication Union Telecommunication Standardization Sector (ITU-T) recommendations and improving synchronization accuracy. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55740[OCPBUGS-55740])
```
